NARRATOR:
In 2019, a call went out
to storm the gates
of the world's most top secret
military installation.
NICK POPE:
This was the place
that people were attempting
to back engineer
extraterrestrial technology.
NARRATOR:
Millions responded.
JEREMY CORBELL: This
information had been percolating
for 30 years, and then bam!
A perfect storm.
BILL BIRNES:
On the Internet, on the radio,
promoters were talking
about let's storm Area 51.
NARRATOR: The military
vowed to protect the base
by any means necessary.
The DoD said
we would bomb millennials
if they actually tried to storm
the gates of Area 51.
NARRATOR: But still,
thousands met the call to action.
What's behind those gates
is one of the last mysteries.
I want the government to release
the records now, today.
NARRATOR: Was this the
beginning of a movement
that will finally tear down
the walls of government secrecy
and expose the truth
about an extraterrestrial
presence on planet Earth?
GIORGIO A. TSOUKALOS:
People are interested
in the extraterrestrial
question,
and they want answers.
NARRATOR:
There is a doorway
in the universe.
Beyond it is
the promise of truth.
It demands
we question everything
we have ever been taught.
The evidence is all around us.
The future is
right before our eyes.
We are not alone.
We have never  been alone.
College student Matty Roberts
creates a post on Facebook.
In it, Roberts calls on
his friends to storm
the top secret
U.S. military base
called Area 51,
a place
that has long been rumored
to be housing crashed
extraterrestrial spacecraft.
As part of the post,
Roberts invites his readers
to click to indicate
if they're attending.
I had shared it to my own
personal Facebook page,
and I think it amassed
probably about 40 RSVPs,
the people that were interested
or had tagged themselves
as going.
NARRATOR:
Roberts has no idea
whether the post
will simply reach his own circle
of friends and acquaintances
on Facebook
or if it will spread further
into cyberspace.
He gets his answer
two days later
when his phone begins buzzing
with RSVP notifications.
First a few hundred.
Then a few thousand.
ROBERTS: It just kept
kind of snowballing.
And it took about three days
for it to really take off,
and it just took off
like wildfire.
And then that's when
it got posted on reddit.
And when it got posted
on reddit,
it really took off.
NARRATOR:
Within a week,
the number of RSVPs soars
to over a million.
And then on July 11,
the news got ahold of it.
Now a new Facebook event
talks about organizing
a large mob to raid the base.
They were trying to organize
a big mob to storm Area 51,
where all the aliens are.
Officials are saying stay away,
this is not something
you want to go to.
REPORTER: There are even signs
that warn it's a restricted area,
that it's unlawful to enter
the area without permission,
and that use of deadly force
is authorized.
In short, don't go.
NARRATOR: News commentators point
out that if even a small fraction
of those who responded show up,
the proposed storming could
quickly turn violent.
Alarmed at the overwhelming
response to Roberts' post,
U.S. military officials
issue a warning.
In ominous language,
it states that
"The U.S. Air Force
always stands ready
to protect America
and its assets."
Within days, Matty Roberts
gets a visit from the FBI.
ROBERTS:
FBI did show up to my house.
They asked me to send them
anybody that's trying
to radicalize this thing,
in the form of actually
storming the base,
and actually causing harm
to people.
They were really concerned about
people sending me death threats.
NARRATOR:
In the wake of the FBI's visit,
Roberts claims that he was
joking all along,
and that he never
actually intended
for anyone to heed his call.
ROBERTS: I was just kind of like,
I didn't think anybody was gonna
take it too seriously 'cause
when I created the event
on Facebook,
it was meant as a joke,
kind of, like, tongue in cheek.
Never intended for it
to go this far.
It was terrifying.
NARRATOR: But whether Roberts
wanted people to take him seriously
or not, by early July,
it seemed nothing could derail
what he had set in motion.
Matty Roberts' original post
has now been reposted
hundreds of thousands of times.
Over two million people
have indicated
they plan to descend
on Area 51 in September,
and storm the top secret base.
No one has any idea how many
might actually attend,
and both the government and the
media gear up to blame Roberts
if things turn into
an ugly confrontation
between the military and tens of
thousands of UFO enthusiasts.
In order to take the pressure
off of himself
and his associates, Roberts asks
that his followers call off
any plans to actually invade
the base on September 20.
Instead, he announces
an alternative idea:
a peaceful celebration
called Alienstock,
which he begins organizing in
the tiny town of Rachel, Nevada,
just outside Area 51.
He promises a festival of music,
art and all things alien.
POPE: In the weeks before the
event, there are efforts aimed
at scaling down the rhetoric and
averting a potential tragedy.
BIRNES: The government just did
a whole counter-media program,
letting folks know that they're
not taking this as a game,
they don't think it's funny.
No, it's not Woodstock.
You want to have a rock festival
outside of Rachel?
Hey, have a nice day, right?
But you cross Area 51,
we take it seriously.
You will be arrested,
prosecuted,
likely convicted
and sent to jail.
NARRATOR: Ten days before
the event, two Dutch YouTubers
penetrate the Area 51 perimeter,
hiking three miles
into the restricted area.
Their arrests make national
headlines, and add to concerns
that the upcoming gathering
could easily get out of hand.
POPE: Astoundingly,
they were sentenced to a year in jail.
The message was clear: we are
going to come down on you hard.
KEVIN ALMEIDA:
I think behind those gates
is something that
nobody can explain,
not even the people
that work there.
I have no answers,
but I'm gonna find out.
That's why I came here,
3,000 miles,
to find out those answers.
NARRATOR:
On the day the event begins,
the Department of Defense posts
an ominous tweet.
It features a picture
of a B-2 bomber,
along with a heading that states
that this is the last thing
millennials will see if they
attempt the Area 51 raid today.
The tweet is quickly deleted.
They made a case of saying
that it would be considered
an act of terrorism.
Even saying we would
bomb millennials
if they actually tried to
storm the gates of Area 51.
That was a little severe.
POPE: Now, they cleverly didn't
exactly say what would happen,
but there was a palpable threat
left hanging in the air.
NARRATOR: Faced with the military's
willingness to defend Area 51
at all costs, many potential
attendees change their plans
and decide not to attend.
But while the government
warnings are largely effective,
on the night of September 20,
nearly 100 people refuse
to be intimidated,
and gather at the gates.
ZACK ETKIND: I think behind the
gate there could very well be,
uh, technology that
the government is not
informing us of.
There's a lot of people that
are, like, watching this event
being like, "This is the night."
This is the night
we find some aliens."
They can't catch us all!
(crowd shouting)
KYLE KALLMAN: People are
prepared for a bloodbath,
but I have seen nothing.
The cops have been out
in a show of force,
and they are gonna make it
very unpleasant
for anybody who crosses.
NARRATOR:
Both sides show restraint,
and a potentially deadly
confrontation is averted.
Only two people are detained by
authorities for minor offenses.
Over the next three days,
approximately 3,000 more people
make the journey to Area 51
in a show of solidarity,
and in protest
of government secrecy.
There's a huge alien community
around the world.
It was a matter of time before
this was gonna happen.
I don't think the government's
being honest,
'cause I think they would
freak us out if they told us
what was inside that big ol'
mountain there.
NARRATOR: But there are many who
believe that without the serious threat
of military action,
the turnout might have been
significantly larger.
MARTELL: The government
caused a lot of confusion,
and pretty much discouraged
most people
from showing up to the event.
POPE: In the days and weeks
leading up to September the 20th,
there was a mass
of confusing reports about
what might actually take place.
And one wonders, did this play
into the hands of the government
and work to their advantage?
NARRATOR: If government threats
did indeed suppress the turnout
at the Area 51 festivals,
what could they be protecting?
Is it only military secrets...
or something else?
For ancient astronaut theorists,
the answer is obvious.
So it seems a lot of people are
asking the same question:
what is it that the government
is hiding at Area 51?
LINDA MOULTON HOWE:
The United States began
with a policy of lies
and denial.
Let's call it for what it is...
counterintelligence.
UFOs and ETs have been
at the top
of the counterintelligence list
since World War II.
Our government doesn't want us
to know the truth.
TSOUKALOS:
We know for a fact
that for over 50 years,
not just the U.S. government
but governments from around
the world have always denied
the UFO question or
the extraterrestrial question.
NARRATOR: Could the U.S.
government be hiding
not only crashed UFOs, but even
extraterrestrials at Area 51?
Perhaps further clues
can be found
at the very entrance
of the secret base,
an entrance that has been
strictly off-limits for decades.
NARRATOR:
Could Area 51 truly harbor
extraterrestrial secrets?
And if so, how did it all begin?
Perhaps answers can be found
in the murky history
of the mysterious desert base.
We actually have to go back to
the attack on Pearl Harbor
in December 1941.
The government said
we can never allow something
like this to happen again.
So, let's move or create
some of these installations
and facilities further
into the country.
NARRATOR: Area 51 was built around
a salt flat known as Groom Lake.
A runway now slices across
the dry lake bed.
The reason why Groom Lake was
chosen was very simple:
Groom Lake itself was a dry bed
but it was extremely long,
and it could double
as a huge runway.
Some of these aircraft
required long runways.
For many years, Area 51
enthusiasts were able to watch
with high-powered binocular
lenses and see base activity.
None of that is possible
anymore.
They've gone to great lengths
to keep whatever's happening
at Area 51 a secret.
NARRATOR: For the better
part of a century,
the U.S. government denied
the very existence of Area 51.
But why?
The official Area 51
now admitted by the government
is this facility where aircraft
were developed and test-flown.
The U-2 spy plane.
The SR-71 Blackbird,
and of course, more recently,
stealth technology.
So that's the official Area 51...
highly secret, secure, remote.
But then there's
the unofficial Area 51
where people say that there was
an even bigger secret there.
And that was
extraterrestrial technology.
NARRATOR:
To further investigate
what might be hidden
at the secret Area 51 base,
former British Ministry
of Defense officer Nick Pope
and filmmaker Jeremy Corbell
have enlisted the help
of local resident Joerg Arnu.
Joerg, who has lived in nearby
Rachel, Nevada for 15 years,
has been a firsthand witness
to Area 51's recent history.
What's the strangest, uh,
interaction you've seen
of people coming in or out
of the base?
Heavy construction equipment
going into the base
when they were doing
construction.
And also, sometimes you see
military vehicles being dragged
into the base.
They set them up inside
the bombing ranges
for shooting targets.
Um, just pull over here.
There's a sheriff's vehicle
coming our way.
We don't want any trouble.
We don't want to block them.
We don't want to go any further.
POPE:
This is extra security.
I don't think we've ever seen
quite this much.
NARRATOR:
In light of the tension
surrounding
the Storm Area 51 event,
the military has implemented
a zero-tolerance lockdown
at the gate of the secret base.
POPE:
So, here we are.
I think this is about as far
as we can go.
The point of no return, right?
ARNU:
Yes. We cannot go any further.
POPE:
All this barbed wire here,
all the security measures,
this is the point at which
if you take one step further,
the full force of security
will come down on us, right?
Make no mistake,
we step one step
into that territory, and
everything is going to change.
If I came up here,
is anybody going to talk to me?
- Are they going to say
anything to me? - No.
No. These are signs that
spell out in plain English:
bad things are going to happen
to you if you cross this line.
-POPE: Right.
-ARNU: It's very clear.
So now look,
if we walked past that barrier,
up that road, what would we see?
What would we find?
We would be walking down
about 20 miles of paved road
into the valley that Area 51
is located in.
In between here and the base,
there's more security
checkpoints,
there's more road sensors.
If you were to get to Area 51,
you're standing there
and you look around
and it looks like any other
military Air Force base.
But the good stuff
is all in hangars.
It is not out in the open.
It's not like, you know,
they got the saucer
right there on the runway.
-So, there are hangers obviously.
-Yeah.
But, uh, there are even rumors
of huge underground facilities,
facilities carved into the sides
of the mountains.
There are people that talk about
underground facilities.
They keep tabs on people
that watch the base.
They know exactly when
somebody's up on Tikaboo Peak,
for instance, one of
the view spots of the base.
NARRATOR: Located 26 miles
from the Area 51 base,
Tikaboo Peak
is the only public land
where people can actually see
the Groom Lake runway
and hangars.
And they know exactly, "Okay,
right now is a good moment"
to fly our good stuff,"
and that's when they bring out
the good stuff.
I've actually been
on Tikaboo Peak
when they did a test-flight
and it was
the most amazing thing.
We look at the base
and all of a sudden,
in the middle of the night,
all the runway lights come on.
I mean, it's-it's the most
amazing thing to watch.
All of a sudden,
the-the desert in front of you,
below you, becomes alive.
You see a light taxiing
to the runway,
the light takes off,
the runway lights go out,
the light goes out,
and that was the end of that.
I mean, literally feet
above the runway,
the lights just went out.
-That's ultra-high security.
-Yes.
And whatever that thing was,
- clearly they were really
trying to protect it... - Yes.
...and minimizing that anyone
could get eyes on it.
Correct.
NARRATOR: Could claims that the U.S.
military
discovered otherworldly
spacecraft be true?
Might some of post-war America's
greatest technological
accomplishments
have been the result
of reverse engineering
alien vehicles?
Ancient astronaut theorists
say yes,
and insist that the truth
about Area 51
was actually revealed
decades ago,
not by UFO enthusiasts
or whistle-blowers,
but by two of the men
most responsible
for maintaining the government's
most vital secrets.
NARRATOR:
In the midst of World War II,
the government presses the
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation
to develop the next generation
of military planes...
jet fighters designed to
outflank propeller aircraft
and help turn the tide of war.
A team headed by
Lockheed engineer
Clarence "Kelly" Johnson
delivers the first production
model in just 143 days.
Their P-80 Shooting Star
initiates the jet age
for the U.S. military.
Kelly Johnson's secret research
and development team
ultimately becomes known...
as "Skunk Works."
DOLAN:
Clarence Kelly Johnson
was the first head of Lockheed's
Skunk Works division
back in the '50s and '60s,
up until 1975.
He's the developer
of the U-2 spy plane
which was able to fly
at the incredible altitude
of 80,000 feet,
equipped with
photographic capabilities
that were astonishing.
And he is a great legend in the
aviation community, for sure.
NARRATOR: Despite his
mainstream credentials,
Johnson becomes
the primary witness
to a now-famous UFO sighting
in Agoura, California,
on December 16, 1953.
His report of the encounter,
and his personal sketches
of the craft,
were preserved
by Project Blue Book,
the U.S. government's
official account
of the UFO phenomenon
at the time.
DOLAN: He was with some of
his colleagues at the time
when he saw a very,
very unusual object
that he could not explain
in any kind of technology
that was familiar to him
at the time.
NARRATOR: During an era of
official skepticism about UFOs,
Johnson risks his career
by reporting the sighting
to his superiors.
But instead of being penalized
or demoted,
Johnson is seemingly rewarded
two years later,
when he plays a pivotal role
in founding America's
most secret military base:
Area 51.
Kelly Johnson was the person
that identified
the location where Area 51 is
as a good strategic location.
It is fundamentally located
in the right part of the world
without prying eyes.
NARRATOR: But was Area 51 founded
merely to test experimental aircraft,
as the military insists?
Or did Kelly Johnson choose
the location as the best place
to reverse engineer
the very alien spacecraft
he believed he saw
with his own eyes?
Kelly Johnson died in 1990,
without ever disclosing
the secrets of Area 51.
But a key person
in his inner circle
openly expressed his belief
that extraterrestrials
are present on Earth.
Aviation designer
Benjamin Robert Rich
succeeds Kelly Johnson as the
second director of Skunk Works.
He will eventually become known
as the "father of stealth."
Ben Rich was one
of the real legends
of the history
of American aviation,
and-and the classified world
in general.
And he's famously known
as the man
who's really behind the design
of the F-117A Nighthawk.
That's the stealth fighter
which would revolutionize
aviation in the 1980s and 90s.
NARRATOR: Another aviation expert
and colleague, Jim Goodall,
heard rumors that Ben Rich
had information
confirming the existence
of UFOs,
so he decided to ask,
point blank,
what this legendary head
of Skunk Works really believed.
JIM GOODALL: Mr. Ben Rich
was a friend of mine,
and just before he passed away,
I asked him, I said,
"Do you believe in UFOs?"
He said, he said, "Jim",
"we have things
out in the desert
"that are 50 years beyond
what you can comprehend.
"Not what you think
you can build in 50 years,
"but what you can comprehend.
"And if you've seen movies
like  Star Trek and  Star Wars,
we've been there, done that."
To me, I think it was
a deathbed confession.
CORBELL:
This is a man that would know
what technologies we have
in our inventory as humans
and what we don't.
Ben Rich was a believer in UFOs.
I think beyond believer,
I think he knew.
NARRATOR: But of all the
people who worked at Area 51,
perhaps the most famous,
or infamous, is Bob Lazar.
No one has been more
inflammatory, or controversial.
As far as alien enthusiasts
are concerned,
Lazar has done more to turn
a previously unknown
military base
in the middle
of an obscure Nevada desert
into the white-hot center of
America's obsession with UFOs,
aliens and government
conspiracies.
But who is Bob Lazar?
And what did he see at Area 51?
Who among us has not heard about
an alleged UFO cover-up?
NARRATOR:
On local TV station KLAS,
investigative reporter
George Knapp
interviews a man going by
the name "Dennis"
and shot in silhouette
to hide his identity.
The man claims to work at the
secret military installation
that the U.S. government
still maintains does not exist.
And according to him,
the base does, in fact,
hold extraterrestrial
spacecraft.
GEORGE KNAPP: Exactly what's
going on up there?
BOB LAZAR: Well, there's
several, uh, actually nine, uh,
flying saucers, flying disks,
uh, that are out there
of extraterrestrial origin.
POPE:
Here was someone
who claimed to have worked
at Area 51,
back engineering
alien technology.
UFOs that had crashed,
possibly at Roswell,
and trying to figure out
how they worked.
And then maybe
building one ourselves.
NARRATOR:
Frightened that the government
might try to harm him
if he remains anonymous,
the whistle-blower
and reporter George Knapp
wrestle with the idea
of revealing his name.
The day that we unveiled
his identity to the world,
he's in the station
and he grabs the tape,
he said, "I've changed my mind,
not gonna do it."
Right up to the end,
he was fighting it
and arguing with himself
about whether it's a good idea,
even though his life
had been threatened,
his life had been
turned upside down.
NARRATOR: In the end,
the whistle-blower decided
to come out from the shadows
and reveal his name... Bob Lazar.
The one good thing Bob Lazar did
was came forward
with George Knapp
in 1989 on May 15,
and by doing that,
he protected himself.
He was scared for his life,
and he protected himself
by telling you what happened
to him in one shot, straight up.
NARRATOR:
From that day onward,
Bob Lazar has remained the most
controversial UFO whistle-blower
in history, and going public
came at a heavy price.
A price many believe was exacted
by a government
determined to hide the truth
about Area 51.
Not only was Bob's house
broken into and they'd
move stuff around, they'd write
things on the, on the wall.
He's got an Uzi
peeking out the window.
The fear was real.
The threats that were made
against him were real.
The surveillance was real.
NARRATOR:
Faced with such harassment,
Lazar retreated
from public view for decades.
I don't like being
in the public eye.
I don't have money
for doing this,
and quite frankly,
I could make up a better lie,
but I have no motivation to lie.
NARRATOR: But if Bob
Lazar's claims are true,
just how much could he expose
about what's really going on
at Area 51?
On December 4, 2018,
Lazar finally decided
to end years of silence
and tell his full story
to filmmaker Jeremy Corbell
in an explosive
documentary entitled
Bob Lazar: Area 51
and Flying Saucers.
LAZAR:
In the late 1980s,
the U.S. government
had recovered alien spacecraft,
several of them,
and the technology,
in the Nevada desert
that they were keeping quiet
and analyzing.
That's a fact.
That's all my story was,
was that I was just one of the
people working on these craft.
There probably wouldn't be
this awareness of Area 51
without Bob Lazar.
And now we have the film,
and suddenly
he's back in the media
and the public eye.
NARRATOR: The most extraordinary
technology that Lazar claims
to have encountered at Area 51
was an alien reactor,
one that he believes
has the potential
to change the world.
LAZAR: The first time they showed
me the reactor in operation,
just seeing something like that
immediately starts that whole
chain reaction in your mind
going, "Wow, wait,
if you can do this",
"we don't need jet
and rocket engines anymore.
"That means there's... wait...
there's no use for cars."
I mean, boom,
the whole thing changes.
The entire world economy,
everything,
would go end-on-end,
just if we had
an answer to how
that machine worked
that I was sitting there,
touching.
NARRATOR: Jeremy Corbell's
documentary caused a sensation,
bringing Bob Lazar and Area 51
into the spotlight once again.
Ultimately,
it provided the spark
that ignited the
Storm Area 51 movement.
ALEX DISCHINGER: We're all here
thanks to Bob Lazar
and, uh, his good work
and bravery, to be honest.
I think, you know,
with the Internet,
we're just gonna continue
to see more and more people
explore the ideas.
It's gonna grow
hotter and hotter
as people continue to question.
NARRATOR:
Is the U.S. government
still operating a longstanding
campaign to suppress
the truth about Area 51?
Perhaps further clues
can be found
in information exposed
by other whistle-blowers.
Whistle-blowers who claim
that Bob Lazar
isn't the only one
who has discovered the truth
and then been harassed
and discredited
by the U.S. government.
NARRATOR: Critics of Bob Lazar
and his audacious claims
about alien craft
being studied at Area 51
insist that there is no proof
of him ever having worked
at the top secret
military facility.
They suggest that his stories
are simply made up.
But a powerful new witness
has come forward
to corroborate Lazar's story,
former Air Force pilot
David Fruehauf.
DAVID FRUEHAUF: It's only been
for me, personally,
in the last few years,
all of a sudden,
Bob Lazar's statements
and all the things he had said
have gelled now to the point
where I think
he's very credible.
NARRATOR:
While critics routinely claim
that Lazar's supporters
lack any credibility,
they can hardly make that claim
about Fruehauf.
U.S. Air Force Captain
David Fruehauf
joins an elite group of pilots
flying America's
most sophisticated spy plane,
the SR-71.
FRUEHAUF: I was an SR-71 pilot
for four and a half years.
The aircraft,
as far as performance went,
it was an hour
from coast to coast.
It would warp your mind
with that kind of performance.
And you just felt so proud
that you were...
had an opportunity
to-to fly that airplane
and to be a part of that unit
and those people.
It was family.
NARRATOR: No one is surprised
when the military assigns
such an elite pilot
to duties at America's
most top secret Air Force base.
FRUEHAUF:
I worked at Area 51
for six years,
from 1979 till 1985.
You had to have a special
clearance, a top secret SBI,
Special Background
Investigation.
Fortunately, I had gotten that
while I was flying the SR,
so it was an easy transition
for me
to move from the SR-71
and my clearances and all
over into Area 51.
NARRATOR:
Along with his colleagues,
Fruehauf commuted each day from
McCarran Airport in Las Vegas
to Area 51,
using a mysterious government
carrier named Janet Airlines.
BIRNES: One of the great
stories about Area 51
comes from engineer TD Barnes.
Here's what he said.
"If there were UFOs
being reversed engineered
at this base,
I wouldn't know about it,"
because you flew out
in an airline, Janet Airlines,
and the windows were blacked out
so you didn't know
where you were going.
NARRATOR:
Fruehauf noticed
that on his daily commutes,
a select group of scientists
and military personnel
also boarded the Janet 737
in Las Vegas.
When the plane landed
at Area 51,
this group boarded a bus
and headed to an even more
secretive facility
code-named Site Four, or S-4.
FRUEHAUF: When I was
there, we knew about S-4,
but we didn't know
what they did.
All we knew was there was
certain people that got on
the 737 in the morning,
and we got to Area 51,
they would take and go off in
a different direction in a bus
and then we went on
to the north,
going up towards the hangars.
NARRATOR: Fruehauf never knew exactly
what was going on at Site Four
during his time at Area 51.
But when he heard Bob Lazar's
story years later,
he found that Lazar's
description of flying
to Area 51 on a Janet 737
and traveling to S-4
rang true in every detail.
FRUEHAUF: When I heard, uh,
Bob Lazar describe getting on the 737
and fly to Area 51 and get off
and go through the terminal
and go to, uh, S-4...
and everything he talked about
and the way he put it,
uh, he sounded totally,
uh, believable to me.
NARRATOR: Critics contend
that no actual eyewitnesses
have ever come forward
to confirm that Lazar worked at
Area 51, much less at Site Four.
But Fruehauf claims otherwise.
FRUEHAUF:
I know people
that had worked for me,
that after I left there,
they had seen Bob Lazar there,
and they admitted that
to me recently.
I know that his critics
piled on because obviously,
they did not want the word
to come out that there were,
in fact, uh,
UFOs in our possession,
and that he was
revealing a capability
to perhaps our enemies
that we, in fact, were,
uh, alien technologies.
NARRATOR:
But Dave Fruehauf is not
the only highly regarded
aviation expert
to corroborate
Bob Lazar's explosive story.
Jim Goodall is a U.S. Air Force
veteran, military historian
and investigative author
who befriended Bob Lazar
before Lazar was hired
to work at Area 51.
Back then, Lazar worked
at the Sandia nuclear lab
in Albuquerque,
and was a vocal UFO skeptic.
I have the distinction of
knowing him for quite a while.
Yeah, he had been working
in developing nuclear weapons
for Sandia.
You couldn't put
a gun to his head
to convince him
that UFOs were real.
NARRATOR:
But Bob Lazar's skepticism
about the existence of UFOs
was about to change.
GOODALL:
A year later or so,
there's a silhouetted guy
talking about
doing reverse engineering
on alien spacecraft,
and that-that silhouette
was Bob Lazar.
NARRATOR:
In an effort to help his friend
prove he worked
at Area 51 and Site Four,
then-Sergeant Goodall took
Lazar's military tax form
to the Office of Naval
Investigations at the Pentagon.
What happened when he got there
was chilling.
GOODALL: There's a young, uh,
lieutenant commander behind the desk.
And I handed him
Bob Lazar's W-2.
He looks at it, said,
"Excuse me for a minute."
And he says,
"The admiral will see you now."
I mean an admiral, to go talk
to an Air Force tech sergeant
is really below his level
of interrogation.
And he's looking at Lazar's W-2,
and he said,
"Sergeant, I don't know
where in the hell you got this,
"but if I ever see your face
cross my threshold again,
"you'll be the most
sorry son of a bitch NCO
in the United States Air Force,"
as gets Bob's W-2
and he puts it in the shredder.
And he says,
"You are dismissed."
CORBELL:
So he was warned
to stop asking questions
about Bob Lazar.
Anybody trying to seek
the truth about Bob Lazar,
there was pressure
applied on them.
And that's just the way it works
when you want to try
to silence somebody.
NARRATOR: Have the kinds of
pressures exerted against Bob Lazar
continued to obscure the search
for the truth about Area 51?
If so,
will such secrets continue
to remain out of reach
to the activists
of the Storm Area 51 movement?
As far as ancient astronaut
theorists are concerned,
that will depend on a new
generation of truth-seekers,
and a powerful movement that is
just beginning to take shape.
NARRATOR: The Storm Area 51 event
comes to an end without incident.
POPE:
Here in Rachel,
people were fearing the worst.
WAYNE DICE:
So everybody's coming out here,
to-to really,
to see what was gonna happen.
We're out here to make it
a safe event for everybody.
I think the order has come down.
We do not want
mass arrests here.
We do not want trouble.
GEORGE HARRIS: You know,
they had a few arrests,
and, uh, other than that,
they didn't have
any incidents at all.
Everybody behaved.
When we look at all
the disinformation
circling the event
of storming Area 51,
from the media, from the
government, from social media,
it made it a convoluted mess
that was easily something that
most people just chose to avoid.
NARRATOR: Amid what some consider
to be a concerted government effort
to intimidate UFO believers,
many doubt whether the
Storm Area 51 movement can last,
while others hope that this
small beginning will blossom
into something much larger.
POPE: What we might find,
when we look back on this,
is that this was the beginning
of some sort
of cultural movement.
Something that will grow,
year on year.
We might find that it starts
as just maybe
a small one-off event,
but evolves into something
with global recognition...
You're all part of this.
Become active participants,
not passive observers.
POPE: ...and it becomes
a mainstream event.
REDFERN:
I think a lot of people,
particularly due to pop culture,
know of Area 51
and they accept it as gospel
that there really are UFOs
and aliens out there.
That sort of demonstrates how
the public is coming around
to the idea that alien life
is a reality.
KEN LAYNE: For some people, the events
were a good time and a fun weekend.
It could turn
a handful of people
into the next decade's
prominent researchers
on UFOs and government
secrecy and flying saucers
and government corruption and
the military-industrial state.
HOWE: We are at a
revolutionary moment.
You've got an entire generation
of young people now
who have been galvanized,
and they will be looking
for legitimate, credible news
about high strangeness
on this planet
in numbers that have
not happened before.
NARRATOR:
For many, the gates of Area 51
are both real and symbolic.
Real in the sense
that the gates may hide evidence
of an actual
alien presence on Earth,
symbolic in that they represent
the government's
wider determination
to cling to secrecy
for as long as possible.
The U.S. government has kept
so many secrets from the people
that I think that's, you know,
a major driving force
for people to come here.
I don't know if this is
a movement that we're seeing,
but the people want
to know the truth, right?
And they want to know if there
are secrets being kept form us.
And I think
if that forms a movement,
that would be awesome.
COLLIN ANDERSON:
What's behind those gates
is one of the last mysteries.
Bottom of the ocean,
Area 51 and aliens.
POPE: I think the only
way to get the government
to come up with answers
is to keep the pressure on.
Keep demanding answers.
A new generation has to continue
to demand answers,
and do what the past generation
failed to achieve.
NARRATOR: In the end,
some believe that the harsh treatment
once suffered by Bob Lazar
is being repeated today
in the government's response
to the Storm Area 51 movement.
They fear
that under the onslaught
of official intimidation,
the drive for answers
will slowly fade,
and the secrets of Area 51
will remain hidden.
But others are determined
to make this modest event
the beginning of a mass movement
that will ultimately force open
the gates of secrecy
to finally reveal that both
in the universe at large
and right here on Earth,
we are not alone.